too many people make the massive mistake
of thinking that google ads only
provides you the opportunity to target
via keywords which then leads to the
wrong assumption that google ads is only
effective in bottom of the funnel
strategies unlike facebook ads google
ads offers four very clear and different
targeting options that you can use to
promote your business or service online
which is why google ads and not facebook
should be your number one go-to platform
the four main targeting options in
google ads are keywords audiences
demographics and locations my name is
aaron young and i'm your 15 000 hour
google ads master and in this video i
want to show you not only how to add
audiences to your google ads campaign
but the step-by-step process on how to
optimize your campaign by using
audiences to find out exactly when you
should optimize your audiences and
google ads why don't you get my free
google ads optimization checklist which
tells you exactly what you need to
optimize every week every month and
every 90 days you can grab it in the
description below okay let's get into
the teaching adding audiences and google
ads is actually quite a simple process
what you need to do is you firstly go
into your campaign section then go into
audiences and then from this section you
want to go into edit audience segments i
like to add more audiences by the
campaign you then select the campaign
that you want to add your audiences to
now i've already got audiences added to
this campaign but every time you come
back and check google will give you some
new recommendations of new audiences so
it is a process of going through and
selecting some of these audiences we can
see if we want to add these and then
from there you can actually do a search
to find out if there's any other
relevant searches dependent on your
service or your product now for this
campaign the product that we're
marketing here is like a skip bin or a
waste bin service so we can try a lot of
different construction services and home
ownership services so let's firstly try
construction and you can see here once
we've typed in that word construction
it's given us some new different
audiences that we can add to our
campaign so it's just a matter of going
through and then clicking these as well
now another thing that we can look at is
homeowners so i've just typed in home
here and you can see here that this has
brought in another lot of different
options that we can use so once again we
just go through and select any of these
that we think is relevant and once
you're happy with your selection you
just click save hey before we get to the
next point can you help me by quickly
liking this video and subscribing to my
channel this makes sure that i can
continue to create these google ads
tutorials so that you can grow your own
business let's keep going so once we've
added our audiences to google ads we
want to wait a good 45 to 60 days before
we can start completing some
optimizations via audiences and the
reason for why we need to wait that
first 45 to 60 days is to make sure that
we actually have some data to be able to
make the correct optimization decisions
so to complete your optimization actions
via audiences the first thing you want
to do is you actually want to go into
the show table and expand the table and
what we're actually looking at doing
here is we actually want to make sure
that the audiences that we have added
are actually collecting the majority of
clicks and conversions that are
happening in our account so go down to
the bottom of your audiences and what
you want to be looking at here is you
want to be looking at the breakdown and
seeing how many the impressions or the
interactions and ultimately the
conversions are happening in the
segments that we have added and then how
many are happening in this other line
which is called other now this other
line includes the total traffic which is
not included in any specific category
which means that these clicks and
conversions are happening in an audience
which hasn't yet been added to our
campaign so that's when we want to go
and repeat our first step and go through
and add in some extra audiences so that
we can increase these totals and making
sure that we're collecting as much data
as possible in these added segments
through the period of november and
december last year in this search
campaign we got about 65
so around about 3 000 impressions from
the total of four thousand seven hundred
which is pretty good but ultimately we
do want to get that up to above ninety
percent but even with sixty five percent
of the data we can still actually make
some really good optimization decisions
on the current audiences that we have
added to our campaign now to be able to
make those decisions one of the metrics
that you do want to add and google will
generally not add this into this column
is you want to go into column and you
also want to add in your search
impression share now the reason for why
i add in the search impression share and
if you don't know your search impression
share is similar to your share of voice
so at 36.18
that lets us know that of all of the
available searches in this home and
garden segment we've appeared on 36.18
of those searches and what that lets us
know is that we've still got more room
to grow in that individual audience so
in this section here if we saw that
there was an audience that was in the
high 90s we would know that even if we
are getting a really good performance
there's no point by adding in some extra
bid optimizations because we've already
reached the maximum market penetration
for that individual audience the
optimization action that we do have with
the audiences is that we can add in
what's called bid adjustments now what
bid adjustments do is it focuses more of
our daily budget onto these individual
audiences by adding in a bid adjustment
of plus 20
we're saying that we want to add in an
extra 20 waiting for anyone who appears
in this home and garden audience segment
or in this do-it-yourselfers audience
segment so the way that i go about
making a decision as to whether i need
to increase or decrease these bid
adjustments is i'm looking at the cost
per conversion for the total account and
the cost per conversion for the total
account over this period was 23
so i'm using that as our core marker and
then i'm looking at the search
impression share so what i want to look
at is i want to look at are there any
audience segments that have a really
good cost per conversion and we still
have some room to grow that market and
what we're looking at by there is that
the search impression share is anything
under that 60 range so we can look at in
here in this motor vehicles one we've
actually got a cost per conversion of 18
which is good five dollars under the
account average and our search
impression shares at 36 so there's still
room to grow and even what we can see
through here is that the conversion rate
is outperforming the account average so
the account averages at 22 but the
conversion rate for this motor vehicles
used audience segment is actually at 33
so this would be one of those segments
where i'd go we want to actually funnel
some more budget and more importance
into this audience group because we've
got some really good core kpis over a
longer period of time so to go through
and add in this bit adjustment we would
just go in here click the pencil item
and then we can choose to increase that
by either five ten or twenty 20
depending on how aggressive you want to
be while we're also in here what we do
want to check is we want to go through
and actually check our previous bit
adjustments and to make sure that we're
still happy with that current level of
focus that we're putting on those
different audiences and you can see here
these top three we already had some
existing bid adjustments and we can see
here the cost per conversion is still
okay it's probably a little bit higher
on this home and garden one so what we
can do is maybe look to go look we don't
want to be as aggressive and we can pull
that down to 10 so as a wrap up when
you're looking at doing optimizations by
audiences what you do want to look at is
you want to look at the search
impression share so in that metric we're
wanting to make sure that we've still
got some extra room for growth so what
we're really looking at here is
audiences that have a lower search
impression share they also have a low
cost per conversion but they've also got
a high level of conversions and a high
conversion rate when compared to the
remaining of the campaign so that's the
steps you need to take to add audiences
to your campaign and also go about
optimizing your google ads campaign
through audiences remember to follow the
link in the description so that you can
get your free google ads optimization
checklist this is the checklist that
will tell you exactly what you need to
do to optimize your google ads account
every week every month and every 90 days
as we said at the start of this video
optimizing by audiences isn't the only
option that you have in google ads one
of the other main options is optimizing
by keywords if you want to find out how
to complete the perfect keyword research
for your google ads campaign why don't
you check out this video now thank you
again and see you on our next teaching